Document Visibility scope, consistency, and rate-limited APIs (#4995)
temporalio/documentation: docs/encyclopedia/visibility/visibility.mdx

:::

## Operations that use Visibility

> Visibility powers more than the workflow search APIs. Any operation that lists, searches, or counts across executions reads the Visibility index, and some of them belong to other features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visibility has uses beyond the workflow search APIs. Any operation that lists, searches, or counts across executions reads the Visibility index, some of which relate to other features:
```

> - Workflow search and count: `ListWorkflowExecutions`, `ScanWorkflowExecutions`, `CountWorkflowExecutions`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Workflow [search](/develop/typescript/platform/observability#search-attributes) and count: `ListWorkflowExecutions`, `ScanWorkflowExecutions`, `CountWorkflowExecutions`
```

> - `ListSchedules` and `CountSchedules`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Schedule list](/troubleshooting/schedule-missed-actions#investigate-which-schedule-missed-an-action) and count: `ListSchedules` and `CountSchedules`
```

> - `ListBatchOperations`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Batch operations: `ListBatchOperations`
```

> - Worker task-queue reachability: `GetWorkerTaskReachability`, and `DescribeTaskQueue` when reachability is requested

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Worker task-queue reachability](/develop/worker-performance#cli-task-queue-info): `GetWorkerTaskReachability`, and `DescribeTaskQueue` when reachability is requested
```

These operations share the Visibility rate limit and the eventual-consistency behavior described below. Other read APIs, such as worker deployment listing, are also subject to the [Visibility API rate limit](/cloud/limits#visibility-api-rate-limit), where you'll find the full list.

Operations that look up a single entity by ID, such as `DescribeWorkflowExecution` and `DescribeSchedule`, do not use Visibility.

## How current is Visibility data

> Visibility is a search index that Temporal updates asynchronously. After a change is recorded, it takes some time to propagate to the index, so a List or Count query can briefly return stale results. This propagation delay is variable. It is usually fast, but it can be several seconds or longer, and Temporal Cloud does not publish an [SLA](/cloud/sla) for how quickly changes become visible. Treat Visibility as eventually consistent and avoid depending on a fixed or guaranteed delay.

Reviewer: I think we may need to get some official guidance on how we talk about the propagation delay in this paragraph, to make sure we don't introduce legal issues.

Reviewer 2: Discussed on Slack - approved as-is.

Visibility is built for finding and filtering across many executions, not for reading the current state of one execution. When you need the authoritative, up-to-date state of a specific Workflow Execution, use `DescribeWorkflowExecution` instead of a Visibility query.

## When to use Visibility

> Visibility is built for operational discovery and search: finding, filtering, and counting executions for monitoring, tooling, dashboards, and investigation. Reach for it when you want to search or filter executions by Search Attribute in the UI, CLI, or an operational tool, or when you want to count or sample executions for reporting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visibility is intended for operational discovery and search: finding, filtering, and counting executions for monitoring, tooling, dashboards, and investigation. Use it when you want to search or filter executions by Search Attribute in the UI, CLI, or an operational tool, or when you want to count or sample executions for reporting.
```

For a few common tasks, another approach works better:

> - To check whether a specific workflow exists, start it and handle the already-started result, or look it up by ID with `DescribeWorkflowExecution`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To check whether a specific workflow exists, start it and handle the already-started result, or look it up by ID with [`DescribeWorkflowExecution`](/references/operation-list#operations).
```

> - To react to a workflow's progress or completion, follow its Event History or model the dependent work as child workflows instead of polling Visibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To react to a workflow's progress or completion, follow its [Event History](/workflow-execution/event) or model the dependent work as [child workflows](/child-workflows) instead of polling Visibility.
```
